---
title: jour 13 janvier 2024
description: 
author: Zoë Renaudie
date: 2024-01-13
draft: false
tags:
    - programme de thèse

---

Un cours donné à l’hiver 2023 à Concordia me paraît des plus passionnants et son approche plus en accord avec mes valeurs. Je décide de me retirer du séminaire sur la French Theory. 

Nouveau programme de thèse : 

Hiver 2024 : 
Thèse et rattrapage informatique Open HPI

Eté 2024 : 
microprogramme du CRIHN

Automne 2024 : 
Bloc A
**ARTH 809 Theories and Methods of Art History: Sensory & Atmospheric Methods**
*   Instructor: Dr. May Chew
This seminar focuses on experimental and experiential methods mobilized by researchers, writers, and artists to grasp the ungraspable. Critical attunement to the realms of the sensory, affective, immersive, and atmospheric requires flexible, capacious, and interdisciplinary methods drawn from art history, media studies, critical theory, philosophy, and other fields. We first address how we think *with* and *as* bodies, while at the same time challenging dominant understandings of what a body is and can do. We will draw on theorists and practitioners who challenge theories predicated on Western-centric understandings of embodiment and subjectivity, and heed anticolonial theories urging for epistemic, sensory, and somatic realignments beyond colonial paradigms. From here, we will also turn to the growing field of affect and atmospheric studies which prods us to decenter the human and to attend to the porous terrain between bodies, environments, climate, emotions, and minds. Relatedly, we will explore how writers and artists approach that which might be termed “emergent sensibilities,” which have developed alongside targeted economies of attention and therapeutic management, and investigate how the latter continuously reshape our understandings of technology, embodiment, and agency. We will examine how the sensorial and atmospheric have also been understood as politically-laden terrains, paying attention to ways in which they are choreographed in institutional and commercial settings, and the everyday. An underlying thread of this course also probes what it means to be “moved” by aesthetic and sensorial encounters, and how such experiences can reaffirm or challenge bodily and subjective boundaries. This also calls for a study of how art can make space for diverse forms of embodiment and felt knowledges. 

Hiver 2025 : 
Rédaction de l’examen de synthèse 

Été 2025 : 
Séminaire intégrateur de muséologie. 